# gps-attack Glossary

This glossary feautres drone terminology to help users better understand the project and the field of GPS spoofing attacks.

## [Ardupilot](https://github.com/ardupilot/ardupilot)
A popular, open source autopilot firmware system. We use the **Arducopter** option in this repository, as we're testing on a real-life hardware Aurelia X6 Hexacopter in parallel with this simulation tool.

## .bin Log / DataFlash
ArduPilot's onboard logging format. Used to log baseline vs spoofed flights, such as `baseline_flight.bin` and `spoofed_flight.bin`.

## Doppler Effect
The change in frequency of a wave due to a reflector moving towards or away from an object. A common example is when an EMS vehicle's siren sounds differently when it's closer to you compared to when it's farther.

GPS receivers rely on calculating the Doppler shift of received signals to determine the drone's velocity and to help lock onto true satellites. An accurate GPS spoofing attack must accurately calculate a plausible Doppler shift. Bad spoofs (e.g., telling the drone it's flying at supersonic speeds) can be detected.

## Ephemeris
A data file that provides the predicted positions and velocities of astronomical objects. In GPS spoofing attacks, a broadcast ephermis file (e.g., `brdc3540.14n` from NASA CDDIS) is used to provide the spatial coordinates of GPS satellites and sythesize realistic satellite signals.

## [Extended Kalman Filter (EKF)](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/common-apm-navigation-extended-kalman-filter-overview.html)
An algorithm is used to estimate vehicle position, velocity and angular orientation based on rate gyroscopes, accelerometer, compass, GPS, airspeed and barometric pressure measurements.

## Geofence
A virtual perimeter created around a real-world geographic location. A GPS spoofing attack aims to trick the drone into leaving its designated geofence.

## Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)
Provides satellite-based navigation coverage for any user on Earth. There are four operational GNSS systems:

* **United States of America**: Global Positioning System (GPS)
* **Russia**: Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS)
* **China**: BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS)
* **European Union**: Galileo

## [GPS-SDR-SIM](https://github.com/osqzss/gps-sdr-sim)
A simulator that generates GPS baseband signal data streams. Compatible with HackRF and used in the Hakani et al. (2026) paper.

## [HackRF One](https://greatscottgadgets.com/hackrf/one/)
An SDR peripheral capable of transmission or reception of radio signals from 1 MHz to 6 GHz. Used for spoofing in the Hakani et al. (2026) paper, and for hardware tests in `gps-attack`.

## Horizontal Dilution of Precision (HDOP)
A [GNSS](#global-navigation-satellite-system-gnss)/GPS metric that measures how the geometric arrangement of satellites affects the accuracy of horizontal position data (latitude and longitude)

## Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU)
The drone's core sensory component in a drone that measures and reports its specific force, angular rate, and orientation. Generally consists of an accelerometer and a gyroscope.

## Jamming / GPS Jamming Attack
A radio frequency interference (RFI) that blocks or drowns out the signal with white noise. Currently not covered by the `gps-attack` repository, which focuses on GPS spoofing.

## L Band Frequencies
Used by GPS satellites to transmit data. Chosen for penetrating through clouds and vegetation. GPS uses a select subset of L Band frequencies:

### L1: 1575.42 MHz
Broadcasts both civilian (C/A, L1C) and encrypted military (P/Y, M) codes

### L2: 1227.60 MHz
Broadcasts legacy military codes and the modernized civilian L2C code

### L3: 1381.05 MHz
**Not** for civilian usage. Reserved by the US Federal Goverment.

### L5: 1176.45 MHz
Modern band over the legacy L1 band

**Note:** While GLONASS also uses L band frequencies, Galileo uses the E band, while BeiDou uses the B band.

## [Micro Air Vehicle Link (MAVLink)](https://github.com/mavlink/mavlink)
A protocol for communicating with small unmanned vehicle. pymavlink is the Python implementation of MAVLink.


## Mission Planner
Another mission planning and flight observation ground control system for drones. Used in the Hakani et al. (2026) paper, but `gps-attack` uses [QGroundControl](#qgroundcontrol) instead.

## Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL)
A federally funded research and development center in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Part of the Department of Energy (DOE) system.

## Pitch, Yaw, and Roll
The principal axes of an aircraft.

* **Pitch:** Nose up or down
* **Yaw:** Nose left or right
* **Roll**: Rotation about an axis running from nose to tail

## Pseudo-Random Noise (PRN) code
A unique code broadcast by GPS satellites and generated by receivers. A GPS spoofing attack must replicate the correct PRN codes for all visible satellites, otherwise the receiver rejects the signal. Read Section 2.2 of Hakani et al. (2026) for additional details.

## Pseudorange
The approximate distance from a receiver to a satellite computed from signal travel time. Read Section 2.1 of Hakani et al. (2026) for additional details.

## [Pixhawk](https://pixhawk.org/)
An open-source drone hardware system. It can't run on its own so you need firmware such as [PX4](#px4) or [Ardupilot](#ardupilot).

## [PX4](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot)
An open source flight control software for drones. Used in Hakani et al. (2026), but not used in `gps-attack`, which uses [Ardupilot](#ardupilot), another flight control alternative.

## Python
Not snakes. The programming language.

## QGroundControl
A mission planning and flight observation GUI

## Radio Frequency (RF) Layer
The electromagnetic waves that connect the drone and its controller for communication. Can also refer to the RF communications between the drone and a GPS satellite, depending on the context.

## [Return to Launch (RTL)](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/rtl-mode.html)
Sometimes called **Return to Home**. In default, it's a flight mode that navigates the drone back to its exact takeoff point and land. However, if rally points have been setup, the drone will instead land at the closest rally point.

## Software-Defined Radio (SDR)
A radio communication system where traditional hardware components are replaced by software. For drones, it's typically used for drone detection and manipulation, especially spoofing attacks.

## Software in the Loop (SITL)
In the context of [Ardupilot](#ardupilot), it's an option for running drone software without any hardware.

## Spoofing / GPS Spoofing Attack
Transmitting counterfeit, realistic satellite signals. The `gps-attack` repo targets two specific GPS spoofing attacks:

* **Drift:** Emits fake signals with subtle alterations. Slowly pulls the drone off course without triggering any sudden jumps or immediate alarms
* **Replay:** Records legitimate GPS satellite signals at one location and rebroadcasts them elsewhere or at a later time

## Telemetry
Automated collection and transmission of data from distributed sources to a central system for monitoring and analysis.

## Vanderbilt University
A private research university in Nashville, Tennessee that collaborates frequently with [ORNL](#oak-ridge-national-laboratory-ornl).